#summary Vektornye is an engine of many ambitions.
#labels Phase-Design,Featured

= Sputnik - Experimental-series =
The Sputnik-series is a series of experiments, as well as incremental improvements, pushing the boundaries and exploring new territory with each iteration of the program. 
  * _Sputnik-1:_ A cube's color values are randomized and a new cube is created.
  * _Sputnik-2:_ Drag 'n' Drop implemented using code from an [http://svg-whiz.com/samples.html SVG-Whiz sample.]
  * _Sputnik-3:_ A grid is created using matrix transformations courtesy of the Sylvester JavaScript library. A toolbar and debug panel is also introduced. The debug panel uses text elements that can be written to as a more civilized debug output.
  * _Sputnik-4:_ Using the color function of Sputnik-1, multiple blocks are created for the user to place using random colors. The grid snaps the blocks to its elements. Blocks are stackable by creating a new placement grid.
  * _[Sputnik5 Sputnik-5]:_ Fixes several UI glitches and improves overall UI usability. Introduces a colored block selection palette, as well as block removal & garbage collection. It also implements a better UI, with diagonal menu bars. A better debug function is implemented to show status messages. Block data can be saved as voxels within the client.
  * *[Sputnik6 Sputnik-6]:* The program is able to save and load their object's state to/from the database courtesy of the Google App Engine. Users will be able to enter information about their object and keep revisions. Voxel data can be rotated within the window. Objects are consolidated using an algorithm that creates four isometric views of the object.
  * [Sputnik7 Sputnik-7]: Blocks can be selected (individually and in multiples), and then duplicated. Major code cleanup takes place to better allow extension and future improvement of the program-- namely, getting game code in place.